Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.
A set of instruction to do different kinds of outputs using computer programming

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
Java development kit that includes many packages like utilities, I/O, API and etc...

What is IDE?
A.
Integrated development environment


What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.
Eclipse, Intellij, Android studio, Net Bean

Explain the entire java life cycle.

what is class?
It is a blue print for object

What is object?
It is a unit to represent real life entities

What is the entry point of an application?
It is used to control user's access for different applications.

Why main is static?
It is a key word that will be applied to the field, method, or inner class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
The object is the super class of all classes.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
The path is mediator b/n developer and compiler, but the classpath iis b/n developer compiler.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
The methods in Interface are abstract and can't have implementations, but in abstract they can have instance methods
to implement a default behavior.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
no, but we can instantiate one of their subclasses or implementers.

what is Access Specifier?
It is used to set the behavior of the class or methods. For example, private, public, protected, default, etc...

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
It is a type of programming in which the developers define the data type of data structure and the type of operations
that will bee applied to the data structure.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
It is a mechanism to encapsulate a group of operations, like classes, packages, and interfaces. java.lang is one of the
library that will be imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
It is an interface that has collection packages. So far, I used collection, List, Map, and Set

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Since Java is OOP language and multiple inheritance is a feature of object oriented concept, Java supports it.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
It is a technique of allowing a class to have more than one method with the same name.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
They are unwanted events. The default way of handling them is by creating an object known as Exception Object.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
It is mostly used for memory management. Example, static void method(), or static int a;

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
It is a key word for different tasks, like final variable is to create constant variables, final method is for preventing
method overriding, and final class is to prevent inheritance.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Both final and finally use for reservation, but finally associates with a try/catch block. Finalize uses for Garbage
collector and it will be called before deletion of the object.

What is a constructor ?
It is a way of accessing the object or variables or methods

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Yes, as long as the parameters are not the same.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
We can call it using "this" key word.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
It is a way of accessing the object in the same class.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
It is a way of referring a parent class objects. To refer immediate parent class, by invoking immediate parent class
method, and by invoking immediate parent class constructor.

What is JVM stand for ?
Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
No.

What version of java are you using?
Github.

What is JAR stand for ?
Java ARchive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK is a kit for java development, while JVM is a machine or platform to run jav.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JRE is to provide requirement for java executing and it includes JVM, core classes, and supporting files. But JVM is
a specific abstract place/machine where java bytecode can be executed.

What is compile time and run time?
Compile time is where the code is converted to executable, while Run time is where the executable code is running.

What is heap?
It is a tree-based data structure.

How java manage it's memory?
By dividing into multiple parts, like heap, non-heap, and other using JVM.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String is a class representing character string, StringBuffer is a per class of String, and StringBuilder is to
represent a mutable sequence of characters.

What is Singleton class?
A class that can have only one object at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
It is a way of converting the state of object to byte stream.

when to use transient variable in java?
If we don't want to save the value of the variable in a file.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
While is when the check takes place before the action, and Do while is to check after the action.

What is Enum?
Enumeration to represent a group of named constants.

What is Iterator?
It is a framework to read the data one by one.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Integer because it has 16 bytes of size, while int has 4 bytes

Why is String Immutable in Java?
B/c it is cached in String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
It is a way of calling one constructor from another constructor to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
Serial is a default which uses only one garbage collector, while parallel uses multiple GC.

What is JIT stands for?
Just in time compilation.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Java Heap space is the memory container of the run time. GC is a process of automatic memory management.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Stack is a memory where the variable is stored, while heap is an object in an area.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
It is a program that provides ability of examining or modifying the runtime behavior.

what is multithreading in java?
A java feature that allows multiple programs for maximum utilization of CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
It is a way of creating threads and synchronizing tasks.

What is Framework?
An empty or blank application that can be easily customized into variety of specific real applications.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
JUnit
Selenium
Spock
Cucumber
Spring
DBUnit
Robot
Mockito
TestNG
Rest

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
The only difference is dependency test. While TestNG has Dependency, jUnit doesn't.

What are the dependencies for this project?
It is a state of existence of an entity and that entity is accessed or dictated by another entity.

what is dependency injection in java?
A way of supplying the dependencies of another object.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Static binding is the binding that can be resolved at compile time, while overriding is the option in dynamic binding.








