Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
To sort and organize data.


What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Data insertion
Data Update
Retrieving Data

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
There are many, but some of them are:
Graphics, Statical analysis, operating system, AI, compiler design, Numerical analysis, Simulation, etc...

what is an Array?
An object to serve as a data container, but limited (sized)

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Array is limited, but ArrayList grows dynamically.

what is LinkedList?
It is a linear data structure in which thee elements are linked using pointers.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
An array contains a collection of similar type data elements but the Linked list is
a non-primitive and contains a collection of unordered linked elements known as nodes.

what is queue?
It is a way of inserting data at the end of the queue and removing data from the beginning of the queue.

what is stack?
A container of object which follows the order of LIFO when inserting and removing data.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
Both are the ordering of data, means FILO--->First in Last out and LIFO--->Last in First out.

what is the order of complexity?
It is a way of identifying the speed of the particular algorithm, how fast or slow it performs the operatons.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
It is a minimal number of steps when inputting data of n elements.

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
It is a maximum number of steps when inputting data of n elements.

what is tree in data structure?
It is a nonlinear and is a structure of consisting of one node, root, and zero or one or more subtrees.

what is graph in data structure?
It is also a nonlinear, but it is a consisting of nodes and edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
HashMap allows a null value, while HashTable doesn't.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
RDBMS==> Array
Network data model==> Graph
Hierarchical==> Trees

How HashMap works in java?
Since it contains array of nodes, the Node represent a class having different objects like int hash, key, and value.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
It is a runtime exception which is thrown only at runtime. It occurs when we try to access an element of an array,
with negative value of index or more than its size.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
The basic one is manually. The other ways are Array.copyOf(), System.arraycopy(), and Object.clone().

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
An array contains a collection of similar type data elements but the Linked list is
a non-primitive and contains a collection of unordered linked elements known as nodes.

What is DFS and BFS?
First defining their name: DFS is Depth First Search, and BFS is Breath First Search. Going back to their actions,
when DFS is a edge-based technique and used stack data structure, BFS is vertex-based technique and uses Queue data
structure.

What is Recursion?
It is a way of problem solving by breaking down a problem into smaller sub-problems until they get to smaller enough and
ready to be solved.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
Based on the implementation, Linear is simpler than non-linear, non-linear is effective when it comes memory utilization,
and trees and graphs are best examples for non-linear while array, queue, stack, and linked list are examples of linear.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
It is a mathematical notation that is used in computer science to describe the complexity of an algorithm.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
              Base        Worst
Insertion--> 0(n)         0(n^2)
Bubble ----> 0(n)         0(n^2)
Selection--> 0(n^2)       0(n^2)
Quick------> 0(n log(n))  0(n^2)
Merge------> 0(n log(n))  0(n log(n))
Heap-------> 0(n log(n))  0(n log(n))
Bucket-----> 0(n+k)       0(n^2)

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.

  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


